[Music]
science confirms that dogs can recognize
a bad person we all love our pets and
consider them the smartest kindest
cutest most loyal and the list of
top-notch qualities goes on and on
it looks like dog owners have scientific
evidence to prove that their pets are
the most perceptive and can even help
them single out bad people but dogs
aren't just natural-born detectives
their list of superpowers goes beyond
letting you know whether or not you can
trust someone stick around till the end
of the video as we dig up the dirt on
your dog's incredible abilities but
first take this moment to subscribe to
our Channel and turn on post
notifications so that you'll never miss
an update from us again
dogs can recognize a bad person a team
led by dr. Akiko Takaoka from the
Department of Psychology at Japan's
kyoto university conducted a study the
results of which were published in
animal cognition journal in March 2015
to find out if a dog would trust the
person who lied to it the experiment
went like this dog owners would first
point to a container with food in it and
the dog would run to it they would then
trick their dog into approaching a
container without food simply by
pointing to it this comes as no surprise
of course since we know that dogs
usually run to wherever their owners
point at in fact because of this
scientists are sure that canines
understand human gestures but when the
gestures are inconsistent the dog can
become nervous and stressed the third
time around the dogs would not follow
the pointing hand they simply didn't
believe the liars all of the 34 dogs
that took part in the experiment showed
the same results what this means is that
the dogs were using their previous bad
experiences to know that a person was
untrustworthy atta boy pub don't let
them fool you the group of scientists
claims that the research has a potential
implication in the behavioral study of
canines it also tells us that dogs
prefer this world to be certain
according to animal
gave your expert dr. John Bradshaw of
the University of Bristol as for dr.
Tokioka she plans to do the experiment
on wolves since they're the closest
relative to dogs they feel how other
people treat their owners one more study
published in neuroscience and bio
behavioral reviews states that dogs
clearly read the communication between
their owners and strangers in the
experiment researchers at Kyoto
University had dog owners asked two
groups of strangers for a little help
one was supposed to agree while the
other was told to rudely decline
afterwards the strangers tried to give
the pups a treat and the dog owes
surprised us yet again they wouldn't
take a treat from the people who'd been
mean or disrespectful towards their
owners in fact besides distrusting them
they flat-out ignored these mimi's they
preferred to be fed by those who'd
helped and actually showed kindness
towards these people as if they were
reciprocating the gesture thus the
canines showed a good understanding of
social etiquette these experiments
proved that dogs can feel how others
interact with their owners and draw
their own conclusions on how to treat
those people
[Music]
dogs can read our body language and
emotions it's been proven time and time
again that dogs are able to read our
gestures and facial expressions
scientists at the necessarily research
institutes clever dog lab in Vienna
managed to teach dogs the difference
between sad and happy faces with enough
training and treats for a job well done
the pooches were eventually able to tell
the happy faces from the sad ones even
with human faces they didn't come across
during their training
it means they actually learned to
recognize emotions by judging facial
expressions you're probably wondering
how did the animal show their choice
they simply touch the right picture with
their nose they can sense fear
don't let it know you're afraid
otherwise it will definitely attack you
this is the sort of catchphrase told to
people who are afraid of dogs but this
isn't just some urban legend researchers
at Liverpool University took it from a
popular belief into a popular belief
backed up by science in a study of 694
people the scientists found a link
between a person's emotional state and
their likelihood of getting bitten
emotionally stable and confident people
didn't get bitten nearly as often as
those who feel anxious around
intimidating dogs how is it possible
well dogs might not have psychic powers
to read the fear in your mind but they
do have a very keen sense of smell with
their super sensitive noses they can
detect the chemical reactions going on
in our body when we're stressed the most
obvious of those would be sweating and
releasing adrenaline as our blood starts
pumping faster from fear we start
emitting pheromones that spread all
around Plus as we already know by now
dogs are great at reading facial
expressions you're probably not going to
be grinning from ear to ear as you're
trembling in fear are you so if you
don't fancy sharp teeth piercing your
limb don't freak out the next time you
see a Doberman rushing in your direction
plus it might just want to say hello the
research also claims that insecure dog
owners tend to pass on that feature to
their own canine
their final conclusion was that dogs
tend to bite dog owners more often than
people who don't have a pooch no way
what else can dog sense with their
incredibly sharp noses you've probably
heard about their ability to predict
weather changes and earthquakes but what
about detecting serious illnesses hmm
dogs can smell cancer lots of dog owners
have reported that their pets pay
particular attention to their body part
affected by cancer the most common types
of cancer they can detect are breast and
colon cancer in case this doesn't sound
very true to you there's scientific
evidence to back it up dr. Hillary Brody
a professor in the Department of
Otolaryngology at the University of
California Davis claims that dogs can
find the cancer affected tissues out of
dozens of samples cancer cells have a
specific smell that doesn't exist in
healthy tissues there's even a special
organization in the UK called medical
detection dogs with eight powerful
sniffers that analyze urine samples for
cancer the organization CEO was actually
saved by her on Labrador who kept
staring and lunging at her chest this
ended up helping her find breast cancer
at a very early stage and she was cured
of it scientists believe it had take
about 6 months of training for a dog to
be able to recognize the sense of
specific cancer types faking warned of
upcoming epileptic seizures and diabetic
shock people with insulin dependent
diabetes must control their blood
glucose levels since they can change
dramatically and suddenly drop to
dangerous levels sounds pretty scary huh
but alas looks like dogs can come to the
rescue in this situation - they're super
noses can sense the rapid changes in
blood sugar levels since they change the
smell of an affected person's breath and
skin dogs for diabetics has been
training dogs to use their natural
breath detectors since 2004 the students
at this doggie medical school learn how
to inform their owners of
coming diabetic attacks they can also
help parents by warning them of upcoming
attacks in their children the same
supersenses let dogs predict seizures
and enough training teaches them to help
a seizing person and even fetch a phone
when it's needed in a study published in
the european journal of epilepsy a group
of scientists carried out an experiment
in which they taught dogs to anticipate
epileptic seizures by giving them treats
each time their owner had a seizure
who'd have thought that an animal
notorious for chasing its own tail was
such a super genius dogs can sense
serious diseases and save us from
attacks they can decipher our gestures
and decide if they want to follow social
cues they can even decide to stop
trusting and obeying you when you try to
trick them so if your dog doesn't like
your friends maybe there's something
wrong and your friendships how clever is
your canine tell us in the comments
below don't forget to give us a like and
click subscribe to stand the bright side
of life
[Music]
you